# Wildfire Prediction Model

## Overview

This is our MATH-244 Final Project project. Please read `scripts/eda.ipynb` for more information.

## Project Structure
1. `/data`: Contains our CSV dataset and a description of this dataset. Note that `wildfires_clean2025.csv` and `wildfires_clean2025_py.csv` were generated by our R and Python scripts respectively and are found in the data directory so we don't have to recompute them every time. The Python-generated data will replace the R data in the next phase of the project.
2. `/scripts`: Our analysis scripts
    * `exploratory_analysis.ipynb`: Report for the EDA phase of the project.
    * `environment.yml`: Dependencies we used to run our Python notebooks.
    * `clean_data.ipynb`: Script dedicated to cleaning up the data (simplified version copied to `eda.ipynb`).
    * `clustering.ipynb`: Script dedicated to clustering our data using K-means (simplified version copied to `eda.ipynb`)
    * `finalproject.qmd`: Initial EDA in R: includes grouping data into predefined geographic regions and identifying relevant predictors using box plots.
    * `MATH244_final.ipynb`: Initial Python EDA where we explore using LASSO to test for correlation between our variables.
3. `/presentation`: Empty; to be used for the last phase of the project.
4. `/LICENSE.md`: Our dataset requires us to also have an MIT license.

## Dependencies
0. [Quarto](https://quarto.org/)
0. [Python](https://www.python.org/)
    * Here we use version 3.12, as documented in the ".python-version" file.
0. Python package manager like [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) to install the dependencies in "pyproject.toml".
    * We track "uv.lock" through Git following the developer's [recommendation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/projects/#uvlock)
    * After [installing](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/concepts/projects/sync/#creating-the-lockfile) the dependencies through `uv sync`, make sure to activate the environment by running `source .venv/bin/activate` in the root directory of the project.

## Running and Rendering

Before the following steps, make sure you install all dependencies (see *Dependencies* section).

### Running Notebooks
To run a notebook (.ipynb), open the notebook file in your favorite editor, select the `wildfire-analysis` virtual environment from your editor of choice ,and run the desired notebook cells.

### Rendering Quarto Files
To preview a quarto (.qmd) file, first activate the `wildfire-analysis` environment by running `source .venv/bin/activate` in the root directory of the project. Then, run `quarto preview <path/to/file>` for live development or `quarto render <path/to/file>` to get the final project.

## Contributors
- cristian0527, Cristian
- filip-sakel, Filip